How This Book Is Structured
There are seven major parts in Mini Habits. The end goal of this book is to help
you permanently add healthy, habitual behaviors to your life. The first three
parts discuss habit-building, the brain, willpower, motivation, and how they
relate with one another. The next two parts discuss logical and scientific
conclusions about how to best utilize this information. The last three parts show
you how to apply it. Here are the seven parts in greater detail...
1. Introduction To Mini Habits
Here, you'll find out what a mini habit is. This part includes the story of how I
first made one push-up a full workout (which became a mini-phenomenon called
“The One Push-up Challenge”). We'll also explore why habits are so critical to
actively develop.
What it establishes: what a mini habit is, the importance of habits, and how I
stumbled upon my first mini habit.
2. How Your Brain Works
In part two, we're going to take a look at the human brain. Understanding the
brain can help tremendously in new habit formation, because you can employ
superior strategies with this knowledge. We'll learn about the active and passive
(i.e. conscious and subconscious) parts of the brain, and how they work together
to shape our daily behavior.
What it establishes: the inner workings of the human brain as it relates to
behavior change and creating new habits.
3. Willpower Vs. Motivation
We have two strategies for taking action—either get motivated so that we want
to complete the task or force the issue by using willpower. Is one better than the
other? Do we use both? Science reveals the winner, and suggests the single best
way to apply it.
What it establishes: why it's best to use willpower exclusively (with mini habits)
and ignore motivation altogether.
4. The Strategy of Mini Habits
The first three parts laid the foundation for this concept of tiny, daily actions; in
the next two parts, we’ll discuss why that is the case and how it should work.
Mini habits are most effective with the proper mindset, and this part gets you
into that mindset.
What it establishes: the connection between the Mini Habits strategy and
everything we've learned about habit change to this point.
5. The Mini Habits Difference
This part delves into the advantages of the Mini Habits strategy’s differences and
how it can work for you when others haven’t.
What it establishes: all that makes mini habits uniquely effective.
6. Mini Habits – Eight Steps To Big Change
These eight steps will show you how to choose your habits, plan your journey,
and take your first small steps forward. Each step is broken down into detail,
explaining exactly why it's necessary, different strategies to employ, and how to
best execute.
What it establishes: how to apply mini habits to your life, from the “I want to
create a new habit” stage to success.
7. Eight Mini Habit Rules
This last part covers the eight rules of the Mini Habits strategy. These rules will
keep you on track and ensure you maximize your potential and results.
What it establishes: the rules of mini habits that will help you get great results
while avoiding habit-breaking mistakes